# Push_swap

`push_swap` is a sorting project from 42 coding school that aims to teach students about sorting algorithms, optimization, and basic data structures. The goal of the project is to sort a list of integers using two stacks and a limited set of operations, with the smallest amount of moves possible.

## Features

- Efficient sorting algorithm for a list of integers using two stacks.
- Implementation of the following stack operations: `sa`, `sb`, `ss`, `pa`, `pb`, `ra`, `rb`, `rr`, `rra`, `rrb`, and `rrr`.
- Checker program to validate if the output of the `push_swap` program correctly sorts the list of integers.
- Random number generator script to generate test cases.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- A Unix-based operating system (macOS, Linux, or WSL on Windows)
- GCC compiler
- `make` utility

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/JosephKiragu/push_swap.git
```

2. Change into the project directory:
```
cd push_swap
```

3. Compile the project using the provided `Makefile`:
```
make
```

### Usage

1. Run the `push_swap` program with a list of integers as arguments:

```
./push_swap 3 2 1 6 5 4
```

The program will output a series of operations to sort the given list of integers using two stacks.

2. Use the `checker` program to verify if the output of the `push_swap` program correctly sorts the list of integers:

```
./push_swap 3 2 1 6 5 4 | ./checker 3 2 1 6 5 4
```

The `checker` program will output "OK" if the list is correctly sorted or "KO" if it is not.

3. Use the provided `random_numbers.sh` script to generate test cases:

```
./random_numbers.sh 100 1000 > test_numbers.txt
```

This command will generate a file named `test_numbers.txt` containing 100 random numbers between 1 and 1000.

4. Test the `push_swap` program with the generated test cases:

```
./push_swap $(cat test_numbers.txt) | ./checker $(cat test_numbers.txt)
```

## Testing

To test the efficiency of the sorting algorithm, you can compare the number of moves generated by the `push_swap` program against the expected theoretical minimum:

1. Run the `push_swap` program and count the number of moves:

```
./push_swap $(cat test_numbers.txt) | wc -l
```

2. Compare the result with the expected theoretical minimum for the given list size.
